What jutsu is this anyway?!
A jutsu that pulls… A jutsu that repels…
A Summoning Jutsu…
A jutsu that absorbs ninjutsu!
You have all of Pain's jutsu!
But I'm…not familiar with this one!
Oh, right!
I just confirmed that he can absorb ninjutsu a minute ago!
Stupid me!
Nagato! What the hell is that jutsu anyway?!
Tell me!
No good!
He's completely being controlled… Jigokudo!
Hey, wait… This is…
It's the reviver Pain's jutsu!
What are you after?!
Use Ningendo to extract their soul and kill them off.
Hide their bodies and souls with Jigokudo…
and bring them back to me, so that I can revive them.
I can make the Jinchuriki mine without Madara finding out.
Now then, what else could he do?
Damn it! So you're not gonna give me any answers, after all?!
How does that reviving jutsu work again?
This stuff… It's like my soul's coming out!
And I'm losing strength…
I'm getting a bad feeling about this!
The Acknowledged One
Shurado!
What did he summon? A fancy armor?
Octopops!
He sure uses a lot of hands. To change tactics and his stance.
Naruto, remember when you had that tug-of-war with the Nine Tails!
Susano'o!
Itachi!
So this is the Susano'o! Man, what a show!
You're a lifesaver! Thanks, Itachi!
What kind of ninja is he?!
Damn, he's strong! Fool, ya fool!
He's known as Pain,
and has the strength of the Sage of Six Paths.
So, of course he's strong!
And this time, we're facing him, not his corpse puppets!
So his power and moves are in a different league.
Oh yeah…
We can still use that planet jutsu to capture them…
Planetary Devastation.
Here it comes!
What is that?!
That black sphere looks like it has enormous gravitational pull!
He got me with this jutsu once!
It's super bad, it's super bad!
If you get caught in it, it's over!
Hey, Naruto… What?!
If it's a sure death, how come you're still alive?
Well then, no need to worry, about our victory.
This is no time to be laughing!
How can you be so easygoing when we're in a bind like this?!
If we're caught, we'll never be able to get out!
Its gravitational power is awesome!
I got out only because of Nine Tails' rampage…
It's not about being easygoing.
Analysis requires calm.
It's safe to assume that the mass that Nagato threw earlier
is the central core of gravity.
We need to destroy it.
We'll attack the center simultaneously,
each of us using our most powerful long-distance ninjutsu!
We can't aim properly under these conditions!
Our jutsu will make contact, even if we don't aim correctly.
This tactic takes advantage of the core's powerful gravitational pull.
Every jutsu has a weakness!
Okay.
That was fast!
All right… Me too!
Yasaka Beads!
Tailed Beast Bomb!
Wind Style, Rasen Shuriken!
Forgive me…Itachi.
You're back.
This is the Totsuka Blade…
Do you think an attack like this is going to stop me?
This sword… This is the Totsuka Blade!
Itachi, you had this hidden with you all along!
What is that sword?
It's the Totsuka Blade. Also known as the Sakegari Blade.
It seals away all it pierces, into a world of eternal genjutsu.
The blade itself is imbued with a sealing jutsu
and is a variant of the Kusanagi Blade.
It's a sword that possesses a sealing jutsu.
You will be sealed away soon.
Do you have any last words?
Naruto, I will return to our master's side and watch your story unfold.
If you ask me, you are the final volume of the trilogy.
Jiraiya was the perfect first volume.
But the second volume was a failure…me.
One that our master would not acknowledge.
The series will culminate with the third and final volume.
You must make it a masterpiece…
One that will completely overshadow the failure of the middle volume, Naruto!
Farewell.
Damn Nagato… He wasn't mobile enough!
I hoped to compensate his lack of mobility with the summoned Rinnegan,
which would give him the same field of vision.
But Itachi was able to target it with his kunai even from his blind spots.
That's his shuriken jutsu.
Even Nagato couldn't dodge it.
I have no choice, but to bring out my special reserve!
This Reanimation Jutsu or whatever they call it stinks!
Guys are forced to fight, even when they don't want to.
This is happening at other battlegrounds too, right?
I will put a stop to the Reanimation Jutsu.
I leave Madara to you two.
We fought with a Reanimated Ninja on the way here.
The Sand shinobi sealed him…
But it seems he can't be killed, okay?
This is a perfect jutsu that has no weaknesses, okay?
I told you earlier.
There is a weakness in every jutsu.
I wonder about that…
No, I'll stop him!
Like I said… Leave the rest to me!
Shadow Clone Jutsu!
You've used Nine Tails Chakra Mode too much.
No more clones right now, Naruto!
Don't try to do everything yourself.
I am the best one to put an end to the Reanimation Jutsu.
I also have an idea.
I'll put an end to this war… It's my responsibility!
I'll admit that you're stronger than before.
But because of that,
you seem to have lost sight of what's truly important.
Now listen carefully.
The people of the village, who once abhorred you,
have begun to admire you.
They think of you as a comrade.
It's because you fought hard for their acceptance.
You once said it was everyone who cares about you
who helped you get where you are now.
If you forget others because you now have power,
and become arrogant and egotistical,
you'll eventually become just like Madara.
No matter how powerful you become,
do not try to shoulder everything alone.
If you do, you will surely fail.
Your father, Minato, was able to fulfill his duty as the Hokage
because he had your mother, Kushina, and his comrades at his side.
You share your father's dream, don't you?
Then don't ever forget…
Becoming the Hokage doesn't mean people will acknowledge you.
But when the people acknowledge you,
you can become the Hokage.
Never forget your friends!
Naruto…
I swore to that Iruka fella. Simply put, that I'd protect ya.
I won't let you go alone, bro! Cuz' I'm still alive, and rarin' to go.
Don't act like a spoiled brat!
To me, you are…
An important student.
And…I think of you as my little brother.
The enemy leader is targeting you with everything he's got.
How can we allow you to face such danger?
And besides, there is no reason for you to shoulder that burden alone.
You're right. I forgot.
I thought I had to do it all alone.
W-Why?!
Shisui's eye won't work for another decade or so.
You won't be able to use it against Sasuke.
But you possess something far greater than Shisui's eye.
You have the same soul as Shisui.
That is what Shisui really wanted to pass on.
You don't need his eye anymore.
As you are now,
you can stop Sasuke without something like this.
You can stand before Sasuke now.
This time, you can… No.
I tried to do everything myself and I failed.
This time, I will leave it to my comrades.
I leave Sasuke to you.
You're not just a powerful shinobi.
Killer Bee… Take care of Naruto.
For sure!
Itachi!
Let's go, Octopops!
Hey! Don't underestimate my jutsu!
You really should stand back!
Here are my weaknesses! For real!
I'm a Shadow Style user, and my summoning creature is…
Next time on Naruto Shippuden: "The Mizukage, the Giant Clam, and the Mirage"
My summoning creature is… a giant clam!
THE MIZUKAGE, THE GIANT CLAM, AND THE MIRAGE
Tune in again!